Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone CHAPTER ONE THE BOY WHO LIVED Mr.
Dursley was the director of a firm called Grunnings, which made drills.
They didn't think they could bear it if anyone found out about the Potters.
Dursley's sister, but they hadn't met for several years; in fact, Mrs.
Dursley hummed as he picked out his most boring tie for work, and Mrs.
"Little tyke," chortled Mr.
Dursley as he left the house.
What could he have been thinking of? It must have been a trick of the light.
Dursley blinked and stared at the cat.
Dursley gave himself a little shake and put the cat out of his mind.
They were whispering excitedly together.
Dursley always sat with his back to the window in his office on the ninth floor.
Most of them had never seen an owl even at nighttime.
Dursley, however, had a perfectly normal, owl-free morning.
He yelled at five different people.
He made several important telephone calls and shouted a bit more.
He eyed them angrily as he passed.
He didn't know why, but they made him uneasy.
He put the receiver back down and stroked his mustache, thinking...
Potter wasn't such an unusual name.
He was sure there were lots of people called Potter who had a son called Harry.
Come to think of it, he wasn't even sure his nephew was called Harry.
He'd never even seen the boy.
There was no point in worrying Mrs.
Dursley; she always got so upset at any mention of her sister.
He didn't blame her -- if he'd had a sister like that...
It was a few seconds before Mr.
Dursley realized that the man was wearing a violet cloak.
He didn't seem at all upset at being almost knocked to the ground.
Dursley around the middle and walked off. Mr.
Dursley stood rooted to the spot.
He had been hugged by a complete stranger.
He also thought he had been called a Muggle, whatever that was.
It was now sitting on his garden wall.
It just gave him a stern look.
Was this normal cat behavior? Mr.
Trying to pull himself together, he let himself into the house.
He was still determined not to mention anything to his wife. Mrs.
Dursley had had a nice, normal day.
She told him over dinner all about Mrs.
Dursley tried to act normally.
And now, over to Jim McGuffin with the weather.
Dursley sat frozen in his armchair.
Dursley came into the living room carrying two cups of tea.
He'd have to say something to her.
He cleared his throat nervously.
Dursley looked shocked and angry.
"Why?" "Funny stuff on the news," Mr.
Dursley. "Well, I just thought...
it was something to do with...
Dursley sipped her tea through pursed lips.
Dursley stiffly. "What's his name again? Howard, isn't it?" "Harry.
Nasty, common name, if you ask me." "Oh, yes," said Mr.
Dursley, his heart sinking horribly.
Dursley was in the bathroom, Mr.
Dursley crept to the bedroom window and peered down into the front garden.
He was busy rummaging in his cloak, looking for something.
For some reason, the sight of the cat seemed to amuse him.
It seemed to be a silver cigarette lighter.
He flicked it open, held it up in the air, and clicked it.
The nearest street lamp went out with a little pop.
He clicked it again -- the next lamp flickered into darkness.
If anyone looked out of their window now, even beady-eyed Mrs.
She, too, was wearing a cloak, an emerald one.
Her black hair was drawn into a tight bun.
Well, they're not completely stupid.
They were bound to notice something.
Shooting stars down in Kent -- I'll bet that was Dedalus Diggle.
He never had much sense." "You can't blame them," said Dumbledore gently.
"But that's no reason to lose our heads.
"We have much to be thankful for.
Would you care for a lemon drop?" "A what?" "A lemon drop.
He went to find the Potters.
The rumor is that Lily and James Potter are -- are -- that they're -- dead.
" Dumbledore bowed his head.
Professor McGonagall gasped. "Lily and James...
"That's not all. They're saying he tried to kill the Potter's son, Harry.
He couldn't kill that little boy.
all the people he's killed...
he couldn't kill a little boy? It's just astounding...
of all the things to stop him...
I've been watching them all day.
You couldn't find two people who are less like us.
"His aunt and uncle will be able to explain everything to him when he's older.
"It would be enough to turn any boy's head.
He was almost twice as tall as a normal man and at least five times as wide.
"Young Sirius Black lent it to me.
Inside, just visible, was a baby boy, fast asleep.
We've no business staying here.
On the corner he stopped and took out the silver Put-Outer.
Harry Potter rolled over inside his blankets without waking up.
Dursley had seen that fateful news report about the owls.
His aunt rapped on the door again. "Up!" she screeched.
He rolled onto his back and tried to remember the dream he had been having.
There had been a flying motorcycle in it.
The table was almost hidden beneath all Dudley's birthday presents.
Dudley's favorite punching bag was Harry, but he couldn't often catch him.
Harry had a thin face, knobbly knees, black hair, and bright green eyes.
Dudley looked a lot like Uncle Vernon.
How's that, popkin? Two more presents.
Is that all right'' Dudley thought for a moment.
Finally he said slowly, "So I'll have thirty ...
"All right then." Uncle Vernon chuckled.
"Little tyke wants his money's worth, just like his father.
Every year, Harry was left behind with Mrs.
Figg, a mad old lady who lived two streets away.
The whole house smelled of cabbage and Mrs.
Harry knew he ought to feel sorry that Mrs.
t-t-to come!" Dudley yelled between huge, pretend sobs.
Piers was a scrawny boy with a face like a rat.
This morning, it was motorcycles. "...
"It was flying." Uncle Vernon nearly crashed into the car in front.
"It was only a dream." But he wished he hadn't said anything.
It was cool and dark in there, with lit windows all along the walls.
Dudley quickly found the largest snake in the place.
Then he looked quickly around to see if anyone was watching.
Caught by surprise, Harry fell hard on the concrete floor.
The great snake was uncoiling itself rapidly, slithering out onto the floor.
Piers and Dudley could only gibber.
He was so angry he could hardly speak.
He couldn't remember being in the car when his parents had died.
He couldn't remember his parents at all.
Very strange strangers they were, too.
Dudley had been accepted at Uncle Vernon's old private school, Smeltings.
Piers Polkiss was going there too.
Harry, on the other hand, was going to Stonewall High, the local public school.
"Want to come upstairs and practice?" "No, thanks," said Harry.
Figg wasn 't as bad as usual.
Harry didn't trust himself to speak.
It seemed to be coming from a large metal tub in the sink.
"I'm dyeing some of Dudley's old things gray for you.
No one, ever, in his whole life, had written to him.
Yet here it was, a letter, addressed so plainly there could be no mistake: Mr.
--." "Dad!" said Dudley suddenly.
His face went from red to green faster than a set of traffic lights.
Aunt Petunia took it curiously and read the first line.
For a moment it looked as though she might faint.
Dudley wasn't used to being ignored.
If they don't get an answer...
"Who's writing to me?" "No one.
Your aunt and I have been thinking...
you're really getting a bit big for it...
He sat down on the bed and stared around him.
Nearly everything in here was broken.
Other shelves were full of books.
make him get out...." Harry sighed and stretched out on the bed.
Yesterday he'd have given anything to be up here.
They heard him banging things with his Smelting stick all the way down the hall.
Then he shouted, "There's another one! 'Mr.
He had a plan. The repaired alarm clock rang at six o'clock the next morning.
Harry turned it off quickly and dressed silently.
He mustn't wake the Dursleys.
Uncle Vernon didnt go to work that day.
I want you all back here in five minutes ready to leave.
Even Aunt Petunia didn't dare ask where they were going.
By nightfall Dudley was howling.
He'd never had such a bad day in his life.
Dudley and Harry shared a room with twin beds and damp, musty sheets.
Exactly what he was looking for, none of them knew.
Great drops beat on the roof of the car.
Dud ley sniveled. "It's Monday," he told his mother.
"The Great Humberto's on tonight.
I want to stay somewhere with a television.
This reminded Harry of something.
"Come on! Everyone out!" It was very cold outside the car.
Uncle Vernon was pointing at what looked like a large rock way out at sea.
Harry heard something creak outside.
ten... nine -- maybe he'd wake Dudley up, just to annoy him -- three...
"I warn you -- I'm armed!" There was a pause.
He bent down, picked up the door, and fitted it easily back into its frame.
The noise of the storm outside dropped a little.
Harry opened it with trembling fingers.
Soon the hut was full of the sound and smell of sizzling sausage.
"Now wait jus' one second!" He had leapt to his feet.
"Harry -- yet a wizard." There was silence inside the hut.
Potter, The Floor, Hut-on-the-Rock, The Sea.
Warlock, Supreme Mugwump, International Confed.
"You knew I'm a -- a wizard?" "Knew!" shrieked Aunt Petunia suddenly.
No one does." "Why not?" "Gulpin' gargoyles, Harry, people are still scared.
See, there was this wizard who went...
"Don' make me say it again.
'Course, some stood up to him -- an' he killed 'em.
One o' the only safe places left was Hogwarts.
maybe he just wanted 'em outta the way.
Never wondered how you got that mark on yer forehead? That was no ordinary cut.
Brought yeh ter this lot..." "Load of old tosh," said Uncle Vernon.
Harry jumped; he had almost forgotten that the Dursleys were there.
Uncle Vernon certainly seemed to have got back his courage.
Same night he tried ter kill you.
Makes yeh even more famous.
Dunno if he had enough human left in him to die.
Some say he's still out there, bidin' his time, like, but I don' believe it.
People who was on his side came back ter ours.
Some of 'em came outta kinda trances.
Now he came to think about it...
chased by Dudley's gang, he had somehow found himself out of their reach...
"He's going to Stonewall High and he'll be grateful for it.
He's off ter the finest school of witchcraft and wizardry in the world.
Seven years there and he won't know himself.
"I'm -- er -- not supposed ter do magic, strictly speakin'.
They snapped me wand in half an' everything.
But Dumbledore let me stay on as gamekeeper.
But he still didn't open his eyes.
It had been such a good dream. Tap.
He went straight to the window and jerked it open.
Never mess with goblins, Harry.
As a matter o' fact, I gotta visit Gringotts anyway.
Hogwarts business." Hagrid drew himself up proudly.
"He usually gets me ter do important stuff fer him.
The sky was quite clear now and the sea gleamed in the sunlight.
"They say there's dragons guardin' the highsecurity vaults.
Deep under the Underground.
Bungler if ever there was one.
There was a train to London in five minutes' time.
Harry took the parchment envelope out of his pocket. "Good," said Hagrid.
Three sets of plain work robes (black) 2.
One plain pointed hat (black) for day wear 3.
One pair of protective gloves (dragon hide or similar) 4.
This was just an ordinary street full of ordinary people.
It's a famous place." It was a tiny, grubby-looking pub.
If Hagrid hadn't pointed it out, Harry wouldn't have noticed it was there.
The people hurrying by didn't glance at it.
A few old women were sitting in a corner, drinking tiny glasses of sherry.
One of them was smoking a long pipe.
The low buzz of chatter stopped when they walked in.
Potter, welcome back." Harry didn't know what to say.
Everyone was looking at him.
Potter, can't believe I'm meeting you at last." "So proud, Mr.
One of his eyes was twitching. "Professor Quirrell!" said Hagrid.
"N-not that you n-need it, eh, P-P-Potter?" He laughed nervously.
It took almost ten minutes to get away from them all.
